Necroscope

"I know more than you can possibly imagine. And what I don't know I can get
to know — almost anything." — Harry Keogh

Based on: Charisma
Effect Value: Interactive
Resisted by: Confidence

Necroscopes are the very rarest type of ESPer, so rare that it is thought that
there have never been more than three in existence at any given time throughout
all of recorded history. Literally speaking, "necroscope" means an instrument for
viewing the dead. While this is perhaps not the most technically accurate term
— "necrophone" might almost be better, since the psychic communication most
closely imitates speaking — it nonetheless conveys this rarest of extrasensory
talents well. A necroscope is one who can communicate with the dead, speak with
them, learn from them, and even at times channel them. They have been
described by those lying in their graves a light in the darkness, because they are
someone for the dead to talk to in their quiet isolation, a medium through which
they can complete the things their deaths forced them to leave undone.
As we mentioned earlier, the dead lie in their graves quietly, no longer able
to manipulate their body (at least so they think). There is no conventional way
to communicate with the dead; they cannot read or hear or speak. They do not
know touch, unless the person touching them is a necromancer, one with a
particular psychic ability to rend the soul by destroying the body. Blind, deaf, and
dumb, there is no way for ordinary people to reach them ... but necroscopes are
no ordinary people.

The activities of necromancers notwithstanding, the dead want to talk. The
difference between a necroscope and a necromancer is that a necromancer forces
his victims to surrender their truths under torture. A necroscope's approach is
much more genteel; necroscopes are typically accepted as peers, and the dead are
willing to share with them. It's human nature to want to show off if you've got
something, or to talk with anyone if you're lonely. As a general rule, necroscopes
are congenial people, interested in bettering the world around them. Arrogant
and hostile necroscopes often find their contacts have little to say. This rejection
alone is usually sufficient to open their minds up to the sufferings of others.
Necroscopes bypass the ordinary physical media of communications, and
speak with the dead directly, one mind to another. Most of the time it is
equivalent to simply speaking with the dead, having a conversation as one would
with any living person. Give and take, presenting thoughts as words, etc. This
level of communication — words and sentences — is known as "deadspeaking."
However, if the necroscope trusts the dead person (which they generally can, 
since few dead people are likely to double-cross the only person they can
talk to), it can become a very intimate style of communication indeed.

<BOX>

Raising the Dead

As Harry Keogh was so found of saying, the dead love him. They would
do anything in their power for him, including rising from the cold earth in
their rotting shells to protect him. This is not a power restricted only to
Harry Keogh. Any necroscope with a powerful enough talent and fine
enough skill can call the dead from their graves.
First the necroscope must speak with the dead in the area, establishing
a link with them. He then decides how many of the dead he's going to ask
for help. For each of the dead he attempts to raise there is a cumulative
-2 to his ESP: necroscope skill total. A skill check is made for each of the dead
to be raised and compared to the corpse's Confidence. The total result
points are read on the Push Column of the Result Chart. On a result of
Spectacular or higher, that dead person will rise and assist the necroscope.
Just as the stats of people vary, so do those of the dead. The following
are "average" stats for a newly dead person. Physical stats should be lower
for the long dead.
AVERAGE REANIMATED CORPSE
AGILITY 8_
DEXTERITY 7
ENDURANCE 13 
STRENGTH 14 
TOUGHNESS 13 
INTELLECT 8 
MIND 8 
CONFIDENCE 8
CHARISMA 5

</BOX>

The necroscope can open the channel wider, not forcing thoughts and knowledge to be
throttled through mere words but instead allowing for gestalt communication 
— conversation not through granular words and sentences, but through living ideas. 
The reason such communication requires trust is that at these times the 
differentiation between one mind and another begins to blur, and opening
your inner mind to another consciousness is a concept most people are loathe to try.

This technique, known as "vectoring," is how the necroscope can learn skills from the
dead. By communing with the dead and living their experiences vicariously, a necroscope can build up a store
of knowledge and training in a short amount of time. Vectoring can also be used
to access the skills of the dead, use them as a sort of library for personal use. With
vectoring, a necroscope who speaks only English can contact a dead bilingual,
and then begin speaking in a second language using the deceased's skills. This
is how the line between consciousnesses is blurred, then: one brain can access the
memories of another as if they were its own.

And if the line can be blurred, be certain that it can be removed altogether.
This is known as "channeling," and at these times it may seem as though the
necroscope is a person possessed. The two minds, necroscope and dead, become
as one, each drawing on the full store of knowledge of the other. Not simply
knowledge, though, but also fears, mannerisms, idiosyncrasies, accents, and
style. For the necroscope, this is a method of quickly accessing knowledge that
would otherwise take long months or even years to learn ... why study brain
surgery from a renowned doctor, when you can channel him right now and save
your friend's life? The deceased gets a gift, as well, the chance to live again, only
for a short while and in someone else's body to be sure, but to live again and
practice and display those skills which were learned in life and honed in the quiet
of death. The channeled spirit must access the instinctive balance and aware-
ness of body that the necroscope carries with him, but the actions are those of the
channeled personality.

When channeling, the necroscope cannot hold anything back if it is to work.
He must yield up control of his body to become a dual personality with the dead
person in command. The necroscope's consciousness is forced into the cerebellum
and brain stem, just to make sure that the body continues to function. It is up to
the channeled personality to voluntarily leave the living shell, or else the
necroscope must force the interloper out through willpower alone. This is why a
necroscope should never attempt to channel a willful and devious person like Ted
Bundy. To do so is to invite a long and difficult battle of wills with someone who
has nothing to lose.

Using the Skill

Before speaking to the dead, one must first make introductions. The reasons
behind this are exactly the same as the reasons for introducing oneself to the
living: to let them know who you are, why you want to talk to them, etc. It has
the added benefit of letting the dead know you can talk to them: a fact which is
generally received with some surprise. While a necroscope's talent can have
near-infinite range, introductions are generally done at short range. This is
because the world is filled with dead people rotting two meters or so under the
soil, and introducing oneself to a corpse at long range is much akin to trying to
catch the attention of a stranger a hundred meters away in a crowded mall.

To be sure, it is possible to make contact with
dead people at whatever range your talent can
support, but you must know exactly who it is
you're contacting, exactly where they're buried,
and there can't be too many dead people around
them. For example, a necroscope could stand a
few hundred meters away from Grant's Tomb and
attempt to contact the late leader. The tomb is
visible, the necroscope knows who's buried inside,
and there's not a litter of other bodies in the
mausoleum. Note, however, that unless the necroscope knows exactly where
inside the tomb Grant is buried, or unless he has an area of effect on his SFX, it
might take a good many tries before he "hits" Grant's body with his psionic probe
and makes contact. As you can see, then, it's generally much easier to go and sit
on someone's grave and give it a short shot.

ESP: Necroscope
Necroscopic situation
Deceased is family or close relative -3 
Deceased is an acquaintance -1
Deceased just wants to talk -1 
Deceased knows and doesn't like 'scope +1 
Deceased knows and hates 'scope +3 or more

Once contact is made, the necroscope can summon that person again and
again, as long as they're within range. You can consider the necroscope to have
the dead person's psychic phone number or something similar. Recreating
contact at a hundred kilometers is no harder than recreating contact at two
meters, if the necroscope's SFX has the range.

The necroscopic art is an unusual one, a talent which subsumes the real for
the metaphysical. As do necromancers when they ply their craft, necroscopes go
into a trance when they reach out for the minds of the dead. To disconnect
themselves from the world of the dead and return to vivid world of real life a
necroscope must be awakened by someone else: see the description of Trance
under ESP Special Effects Rules Adjustments, on page 34.

Conversely, this also means that when the necroscope is not in the real world
for reasons other than using his necroscopic SFX, he is open to communication
from people he knows — the dead who have been previously contacted. In other
words, when a necroscope is stunned, unconscious, or sleeping, he naturally
extends his mind out in the realm of thought, and might chance upon a familiar
tare. At these times it seems to the necroscope that the dead invade his dreams
but what really happens is that in his dreamlike state his mind wanders about'
and it naturally gravitates to those spirits he knows. The dead never sleep of
course, so they are always willing to talk to the living, even if the living are
snoring away.

Similarly, a necroscope suffering from severe emotional shock can at times
access the minds of the dead unbidden. Severe shock cannot be understated here-
to do this requires the sort of situation where a normal person would say and
mean, "I don't believe it"; where suddenly you cease interacting with the real
world for a moment. Harry Keogh experienced this when suddenly interrupted
by the abrupt arrival of the East German Grenzpolizei, armed and intent on
arresting him for espionage. This sort of reactive contact is generally beyond the
control of the necroscope (i.e., your gamemaster will tell you when it happens, or
you can play certain cards to achieve it if the gamemaster allows).
Aside from gleaning useful bits of knowledge and trivia through deadspeak,
necroscopes can vector the dead for teaching instruction. Dead teachers count as
teachers exactly as any other character, and they are generally more skilled than
living teachers, as they've had more time to perfect their craft. There is one
problem, however: not only must the teacher make a teaching roll to successfully
impart their expertise, but the necroscope must also make an ESP: necroscope
skill roll to keep the channels open well enough to learn the expertise from the
dead. The difficulty of this roll is equal to the range value from the necroscope
to the deceased, plus double the level of skill which the necromancer wishes to
learn.

A necroscope can vector a spirit and use its skills as if they were his own. The
necroscope uses the dead person's skill instead of his own, except that the
maximum level of skill vectored has restrictions. First of all, for each point that
the necroscope's skill's Attribute is less than the Attribute the dead person had
(while still alive, if applicable), then the maximum skill level vectored is reduced
by one. This is because the necroscope and the dead person have less of a common
frame of reference. For example, a necroscope has an Intellect of 8 and two
tracking adds. He wants to vector a Cherokee hunter who had (and still has,
really) an Intellect of 10 and five tracking adds. The necroscope has two points
less Intellect than the hunter, so he can only vector three tracking adds (five adds
minus two for the difference in Intellect). This gives the necroscope a skill total
of 11 (8 Intellect plus three adds). The difficulty of vectoring skill adds is exactly
the same as for vectoring to learn: double the level of skill which the necromancer
wishes to be able to use, before subtracting for differences in Attributes.
Channeling is the other form of necroscopic self-possession. When a necroscope
channels a dead person's spirit, he lets the dead person take full control of his
body. The necroscope no longer uses his own skills, but uses the skills and
attributes of the deceased. A necroscope with an Agility of 6 will have a tough
time vectoring a martial arts specialist because of the differences in the Agility
Attribute. But if that necroscope channels the martial artist, the spirit uses his
own Agility and martial arts, not the necroscope's (this is because the martial
arts expert is using his many years of training and reflex to accent the
necroscope's instinctive understanding of her own body). At theses times the
necroscope looks like a caricature of the dead person, like a very good imperson-
ator at work. This is because she really is the other person, the spirit of the
deceased is wearing the necroscope's body. Obviously, channeling will not
always work well. A person in a wheelchair cannot channel a great runner like
Pheidippides and expect to run a marathon; his legs won't function no matter
which spirit tries to move them. But normal people can do extraordinary things
when channeling.

The difficulty number for channeling is equal to 10 plus the channeled spirit's
most appropriate skill total. The "most appropriate" skill total is the Attribute
plus skill adds for whatever skill the necroscope is most going to use in this
situation. For Harry Keogh channeling "Sergeant" Lane's military training? this
would be unarmed combat plus Agility. Note that the channeled personality can
still use any other skills he (the spirit) possesses. Note also that once channeling
or vectoring is finished, the necroscope retains none of the knowledge.
Although deadspeaking, vectoring, and channeling are used to describe
various aspects of the necromancer's skill, these are not three separate skills.
Any necroscope can do all three of these with equal facility. Of course, since the
skill takes on such different aspects, a necroscope could choose to specialize in
one of these three applications if the gamemaster allows.

Since necroscopes are so extremely rare, a player who wants to create a
necroscope character must get gamemaster approval. If more than one character
wants to become a necroscope, we suggest that they roll dice. The high roll 
becomes the necroscope, and the low roll must take a psychic gift of the
gamemaster's choice — or perhaps suffer with no ESP gift at all! If they tie,
neither becomes a necroscope, and the gamemaster can dispose of their 
extrasensory fate as desired.

=============================================================================

Prescient

"Without thinking, he tossed the keys onto an empty corner of the desk. Then
he paused and stared at them lying there, forming a pattern — the pattern from
this morning's glimpse into the future."

Based on: Intellect
Effect Value: Time
Resisted by: (Not applicable)
A prescient is a person who has glimpses of the future, foreknowledge of events
to come. Prescience may perhaps be the most common form of psychic gift,

because countless people around the globe have senses of foreboding or insup-
portable convictions of the Tightness of a potential action. But though pre-
science may be common, it is also usually weak; most people experience

only the vaguest forms of prescience. These they call hunches, or
intuition, or deja-vu after the fact. Does this make prescience a
common gift, or simply a gift that functions better than others

do at very weak power? There's no knowing for sure. What-
ever the case, a true prescient is far indeed above this

basest norm.

Prescients get hard-core living-color full-contact in-
your-face visions of the future. While the imagery is

sometimes indistinct or even allegorical and dream-
like, there is still a lot more to a fuzzy view of

yourself a day hence than there is in an unidentifi-
able hunch that maybe you ought to go somewhere.

Prescients get full audio or visual stimuli, some-
times both, or sometimes with other sensations in

attendance. There has been one case of a pre-
scient who suffered full tactile stimulation from

his visions. One day he had a vision that he was
going to get shot, and was doubled over in pain
immediately. He suffered the pain anew the next
day; he later joked that he was shot twice by the
same bullet, once psychically, once physically.
Whatever shape and senses the imagery adopts,
there is one constant that all prescients will vouch for:
that is that every vision with which they have been visited
has, eventually, turned out to be of dramatic or even critical

importance. Why this is so is cause for disagreement among ESP theore-
ticians.

Those who believe in predestination and the immutability of the future
believe that certain events carry with them an emotional resonance. The more
important a thing is, the more resonance it builds, and this shock wave can
propagate backwards through the fourth dimension (time) along the person's
lifeline. Those attuned or sensitive to these waves can read them, see the image
that generated the response, and act upon that knowledge to cause that situation

to come to pass. In this fashion, many of these important events cause them-
selves to be created. Opponents of this theory argue that nonexistent events

cannot generate their own reality, but proponents point out that the events had
already happened — when viewed from the distant future.
The other school of thought is that the future is mutable, and that we can
control the choices we make. These people believe that the reason we can see the
future is best explained by a river rafting analogy. In a river, underwater rocks
cause water to 'pillow up' about them, causing a disturbance felt before the raft
strikes the rock itself. The rafter can then endeavor to avoid this rock. Prescients
can therefore sense this impending rock before normal people can, and can take
steps to avoid it earlier, but ultimately it is up to the prescients to handle the
situation as they like. Detractors of this opinion point out that, with a few
unconfirmed exceptions, prescient visions always come to pass. Supporters,
however, point out that the prescient who has the vision colors its style; the vision
in essence shows what the prescient wants to do — which side of the rock he
should paddle for — and therefore that's what the prescient does.
Regardless of the true explanation, most prescients don't want to take a
chance at messing with the future, so they abide by the visions they see. In the
case of the gunshot prescient, he knew he would get hit. He made no effort to stop
it, as he knew it would not be fatal, although he did arrange to have other agents
nearby to arrest the person who attempted to kill him — and a few minutes before
the attack he called for his own ambulance.
Prescience, like many ESP talents, works best in those misty moments
between true sleep and coming awake, immediately prior to full conscious
awareness. Right as the prescient falls asleep or right as he wakes up are when
the images normally come. Many prescients have made a point to take a few
catnaps during the day to increase their receptivity to visions.
Prescients can also (with the aid of a friend) try to prod their talent, force it
into action briefly with word association games or Rorschach ink blots. It must
be stressed, though, that this is forcing the skill in an unnatural fashion, and any
success it meets with is minimal. Brief one-word answers are generally the
extent of the results these tactics provide; nothing at all like the clarity of the true
visions.

Using the Skill

As mentioned above, the effect value of the prescient's skill is the time value
over which he can detect future events. It is up to the player to determine the
senses involved in the prescient visions, but once these senses are chosen, that's
how the prescient's SFX works ever after.
Whenever the gamemaster feels a serious event is pending within the
prescient's range of time, the prescient makes an ESP: prescience skill roll. He
must generate a skill total equal to or higher than the DN of his SFX, as modified
by the gamemaster for the gravity of the event being foreseen (generally no more
than a point or few, unless total global nuclear war is imminent). If the prescient
fails, no warnings are given. If the prescient succeeds, she sees a vision of the
future. Subtract the prescient SFX's difficulty number from the prescient's skill
total. The result is the value of the duration of the vision in seconds, and also
pertains to the quality and detail of the information gathered through the vision.
With better successes, more information is imparted, and it's imparted more
clearly.
For example, Alec Kyle gets a vision one morning. He only beats the DN of his
SFX by one point. He gets a brief flash, merely a second and a half long, a vague
image of seeing himself walking into Keenan Gormley's office. That's all. He puts
on his hat and decides to go. If instead he'd beaten the DN by nine points, he'd
get a minute-long image of him looking through files in a certain desk drawer,
finding a file, and holding it up so that he can clearly read the name on the top
of the index tab. If Kyle had beaten his DN by 30 points, he'd have had a long
vision indeed, and rendered in such startling clarity that he could probably recite
the contents of the file from the vision alone, and he wouldn't have to go in to the
office.
This points out perhaps the biggest fear of prescients: the fear of a paradox.
If a prescient needs to find someone's phone number, and they have a vision of
themselves in a phone booth finding it, and they get the phone number from the
vision, why do they need to look any more? Answer: because it's supposed to have
happened. They saw the future, but how can they see it if they don't do it?
Prescients have their beliefs, but none really know how they see the future, or
exactly what they're seeing. So just to be safe, they make sure they do the things
they experience in a vision. No sense in disappearing in a temporal paradox,
never to be seen again, right?
The other method of using the skill — free association — is much more trying.
The prescient must have a friend around to assist, to prod the prescient with

unexpected words or images. Among those in the English INTESP, this proce-
dure is known as "denting. "In essence, what the quizzing friend is doing is trying

to hit the prescient with something out of the ordinary, and hoping he'll react
with ESP instead of with logic. As with having visions, the DN for this task is
equal to the prescient's SFX difficulty, and the quality of the response increases
with increasing successes. However, for every point by which the prescient beats
the DN, she takes one shock point and increases her DN for the next free
association by one point. Quizzing can only continue until the prescient misses
a roll, and cannot be undertaken again until the gamemaster decrees.
For example, Deanna has a prescience SFX with a DN of 14. She gets quizzed
by a friend of hers, and rolls a 17 for her first skill total. She gets a Solid success,
but suffers three shock and her next DN is 17. On the next question, she rolls an
astounding 35! This is a Spectacular + success, so she blurts out a critical piece
of information and passes out cold from taking an additional 18 shock. It's just
as well she passed out: with her next DN being 35, she'd likely have missed the
next prodding and the questioning would have had to stop anyway.

=============================================================================

Seer

"When I look at a man — when I try to see into his future — I normally detect
a straight blue line extending forward. Like a line drawn down a sheet of paper
from top to bottom. Call it his line of life, if you wish. From the length of this line
lean work out the length of the man's life. From kinks and deviations which occur
in it, I can determine something of future occurrences and how they will affect
him."

— Igor Vlady

Based on: Mind
Effect Value: Time
Resisted by: (Not applicable)

Every living sentient creature carves an ethereal path through the nonexist-
ence of polyreality as it leads its life; essentially it's a path of where the sentient

went, not just physically but also emotionally and intellectually. Perhaps it is
best considered a metaphysical trail left by the mind and soul as it grows,
changes, and evolves through its existence in whatever space-time universe in
which it resides. These lines extend backward from the creature to reveal
everywhere where it has been and thought and felt in the past, and similarly they
extend forward to cover wherever the sentient will have once gone when viewed
from a future perspective.
Seers are ESPers who can see these lines extending from the hearts of people.
As mentioned above, these lines are the trails of the heart and soul, and they have
bends, squiggles, kinks, and frays wherever the owner had an experience of some
sort. With practice, a seer can learn to interpret these deviations and make a
reasonably accurate forecast of the future.
Furthermore, when a seer can see multiple lines and examine how they
interact, the seer can make predictions about interrelationships or outside
events which will impact the people being read. When lives interact, the lifelines
cross each other. The tangles and deviations indicate how. When two lifelines
cross and they both experience nearly the same aberrations, the seer can
determine that the two either get along well, or else they both experience the
same outside influence. When two lifelines cross and one suffers and the other
swells with power, the seer can determine that one has caused injury to the other;
perhaps the suffering person was mugged, got fired, or the other was someone
the one had been hoping to avoid.
Death is perhaps the event most easily read, for the simple reason that only
living people have lifelines. When a person dies, the lifeline stops. If the death
is traumatic, the line ends abruptly. The line fades to black during lingering
hospital-bound cancer deaths and the like. Whatever the cause, if there's no
lifeline after a certain point, the seer can be certain that there's no life, either.
All sentients have lifelines. For human beings, these lines are bright blue in
color. Vampire lines are bright blood red in color. When a person is infected by
a vampire, their lines merge, and the blue of the human's line shifts slowly
through purple and then to red as it is gradually consumed by the vampire's
undead lifeline. The lines of less intelligent creatures like cats and dogs are much
dimmer than those of humans and vampires, and thus they are easily overlooked
by most seers.
In theory, a seer could read a person's lifeline (and those of their descendants)
all the way to the end of time or all the way back to time's beginning. Fortunately
(in the minds of most seers), ESP skills are not quite that powerful. It wouldn't
be much fun to know the future of the planet for all time.
There is a constant argument among seers about the permutability of the
future. Some seers claim to be able to see multiple future timelines for a person,
and argue that each split is indicative of a potential future which will only come
to pass if the person being read exercises free choice and causes one or the other
to come into existence. Detractors of this theory are those seers who can only see
one future timeline. To these seers, the future is immutable, and any attempt to
avoid it will somehow cause it to come into existence. In their opinion, the seers
which can see multiple lines see the one true future and several other ghost

images which can never come to pass. Multiple-line seers maintain that those
who see only one line have less flexible a talent, as they are unable to forecast all
the possible futures. There is also a third camp of seers who maintain that such
attempts to define the flexibility of the future is an exercise in pointless
philosophizing, since trying to make sound predictions based on squiggly blue
lines is a vague art at best, and a far cry indeed from a hard science.
Regardless of their beliefs in the mutability or unavoidability of the future,
seers almost uniformly avoid forecasting their own future. This has become a bit
of a superstition among the ESPionage circles, but the basic causes are twofold:
the desire to avoid a paradox and the fear of seeing your own lifeline end ten
minutes down the road. Some seers hypothesize that the shock of seeing your
lifeline end ten seconds from now might be enough to give you a massive cardiac
arrest. Such possibilities are enough to prevent the overwhelming majority of
seers from attempting autodivination.

Using the Skill

The effect value of the seer's SFX directly relates to the amount of time of the
targets lifeline the seer can visualize. In addition, seers must concern themselves
with the number of targets they can use their SFX on. If the seer can only affect

one target, then the seer can only see that person's lifeline. Purchasing addi-
tional targets for the ESPer's SFX can either let the seer read two people at once

and watch how they interact, or else let the seer read one person and be able to
notice additional lines (possibly even lines belonging to persons unknown to the
ESPer) as they interact with the person being read.
Seers tend to be polarized into those who can see the past and those who can
see the future. Those who can see into the future are perhaps the most useful,

but those who can see the past are in high demand as interviewers for high-
security positions (like every position in an E-branch). A character can have his

seer SFX be able to visualize both a person's past and future by adding a target
to the SFX specifically to provide double coverage. This allows the seer to see both
the target's past and future for a time equal to the SFX's effect value (in each
direction).
When a seer makes a reading, the amount by which the player beats the DN
of the SFX determines the accuracy of the reading. The quickest and easiest way
to do this is to give the seer one fact for each point by which the roll beats the DN.
Yes, since having a greater effect value increases the DN of the seer's SFX, this
means that the farther ahead a seer can trace a line, the fewer facts will be
determined by the same skill check die roll. On the other hand, since such a
reading covers more time, the facts the seer discovers are much more likely to be
important. Finding out the most important event for the next week of someone's
life is helpful. A seer who easily gleans ten facts for the next sixty seconds of
someone's life is not going to prove useful at all.
Even though seers can spot the lines of unknown people as they interact with
the lifeline of the person being read, they cannot trace the lifeline backwards to
find out who the person is without considerable effort. Life threads are neither
regular nor constrained to three dimensions, and the interactions between the
threads of two lifelines might be physical (such as bumping onto someone on the
street) or intangible (like talking on the phone). The only time a seer can
definitively trace an unidentified lifeline back to the owner is when the owner is
within both visual range and ESP range, and (of course) the lifeline interaction

being traced backwards from is within the SFX's effect value. In those circum-
stances, it does not matter if the person will leave the seer's line of sight and then

return later; the life thread is a metaphysical structure, and the seer can see the
entire thread from interaction all the way back to the person's heart — in
defiance of Newtonian range restrictions.
Regardless of the strength and power of the seer's SFX, a seer can't see
everything; there are simply too many life threads out there to account for, which

may be related to why most seers can see only from one to ten life threads at a
time. It appears to be some sort of subconscious editing function in the brain
which eliminates the background garbage. It's very similar to how a person
reading a newspaper focuses on only a few letters in one column at a time: with
peripheral vision the reader notices that other letters are around, but as they are
at this time unimportant, they remain unidentified and ignored. They might be
in a different paragraph or even an unrelated story, so how (if at all) they interact
with what the person is focusing on is unknown. This parallels how seers ignore
other lifelines, occasionally even lifelines that they might consider important, if
only they knew.
With this restriction, the amount a seer can determine might be severely
restricted. For example, Igor Vlady, when making a reading for Chateau
Bronnitsy, could see that the lifelines of most of the people began to terminate.
There was interaction between them, but the interaction appeared to be
cooperative as opposed to mutually destructive. Nevertheless, it was obvious
that something very bad was about to happen and many Russians would die, but
he couldn't tell what it was. Why is this? Because he didn't notice Harry Keogh's
life thread. He had never met Harry Keogh, and he wasn't reading for him. Thus
to Igor, Harry's line wasn't visible. In a similar vein, seers can miss the passing
lifeline of suicide bombers, assassins, and passers-by. By subconsciously (or even
consciously) screening out nonessential life threads, they might overlook a life
thread which could cause certain readings to make sense.
Although lifelines may be seen to dim with a person's diminishing vitality,
they are almost never so faded as to be invisible to a seer. This is because the
lifelines are seen as threads of neon color against a perfectly black background,
a backdrop so black it defies imagination, and even the faintest of neon lights is
still readily visible against such a backdrop. (If you ever want to see this deep a
black, go on a cavern tour where they shut out the lights underground. Then
you'll understand.)
Similarly, seers can pick up the terminated life threads of dead people as long
as the seer can see the past and the death occurred within the time value of the
ESPer's SFX effect value. This does not require any additional die rolls, as to the
seer the deceased person's lifeline will seem to be pointing straight to their heart
— even at the extreme end of the seer's chronological range, the attachment is
blatantly obvious. This would seem to be problematic if the dead person's body
were moved, but for some inexplicable reason it is not the case. Seers believe it
is because a person's life threads are not an actual physical path, but rather a
metaphysical path. Since the path covers events both real and spiritual, it can
also be used to determine a physical path for the person in question, but since it
is primarily a metaphysical path, it will always appear to a seer to be pointing
at the deceased owner. Whatever the explanation, a seer can pick up the threads
of a dead person without pause and make some determination of the person's
cause of death, and perhaps even whether foul play was involved.
The only exception to all of the above appears to be thanks to vampires,
naturally enough. It can happen that when a person is killed by a vampire, they
die outright. Yet the vampire implanted within manages to survive and rebuild
the person into a state of so-called undeath, and the person can rise and live
again, after a fashion. To a seer, the lifeline of the victim of such an event may
appear to terminate, then resume after a few days with a slight reddish tinge.
Of course, most seers don't expect lifelines to begin again, so such anomalies are
easily missed ...

=============================================================================

Sensitive

"I can't help it. I'm drawn to this place like a moth to a flame. Every where I go,
Chernobyl is burning in my mind, lighting the dim world like a great flare. So too
are the other reactors, everywhere. They are so beautiful, comrade ..." — Josef Rossovskiy

Based on: Intellect
Effect Value: Special (see text)
Resisted by: (Not applicable)

Everything has a tangible essence of some sort, be it spiritual, energetic, physical, or all three. 
Sensitives are those ESPers whose sixth sense is attuned to allow them to perceive some sort of unusual essence.
There are sensitives who are attuned to electricity, there are those who are paranormally receptive to heat, 
there are those who can perceive chemical activity. There can be fine discrimination between types of sensitives, 
also. A sensitive who can spot radioactive materials can tell if someone has a few kilos of plutonium. 
In contrast, someone sensitive to nuclear energy would be able to tell if a few kilos of plutonium were exploded. 
Neither would be well-suited to detect what the other can; there aren't many radioactive materials left a few seconds 
after a nuclear explosion, but until it is detonated a bomb emits very little nuclear energy.
Whatever it is that they are keyed to, sensitive scan detect it.
 
Huge compilations can be detected by attuned sensitives around the globe. 
Smaller amounts of the proper item can only be detected at short range unless there is little or no interference
between the source and the sensitive attuned to it.
In this sense, the item or activity to which a sensitive is keyed can be considered to be like mounds, hills and mountains. 
Small sources are like mounds, and can only be detected at short range unless the ground (the ambient background) 
is very flat. Hills— moderate sources — can be detected from a good distance, and huge sources are like mountains 
which can be detected easily and clearly for a good many miles in any direction.
Whatever the source for a particular sensitive,they carry in their mind's eye a map of the world keyed exclusively 
to those items or activities. For some, these images are only visible when they close their eyes, 
for others the sensitivity is overlaid upon their normal senses and may give them a sort of psychic blind spot 
under the proper circumstances.

For example, a sensitive keyed to heat might detect a pot of hot liquid on a stovetop, but be unable to identify 
the liquid because the paranormal image of the heat completely conceals the liquid from his normal eyesight. 
The pot would seem to glow red,obscuring the contents.
Whichever the case, the imagery can imitate any of the senses, even an itch or a peculiar taste or a sense of 
vertigo. It can even be some other sense which, without an adequate frame of reference, sensitives have been 
unable to explain to anyone else. Even among sensitives, this "other sense" seems to differ dramatically, 
and a few are very discom-fited by experiencing it.
However it is experienced, sensitives know what it is and they know what it means. This makes sensitives
very valuable to the ESPionage world in general; they are
better than standard sensory equipment, and many of
them can detect items for which specific detection devices
cannot be built. Sensitives have been used to track
nuclear-powered submarines (and surface vessels) and
surveillance satellites, and to capture people attempting
to sneak across international borders. One drug sensitive
(who experienced the appropriate highs as the drugs got
closer to hand) spent time helping apprehend drug smug-
glers until he had to retire for psychiatric help and
addiction/withdrawal therapy.
Sensitives are useful tools in the ESPionage arena,
and are in high demand. While they lack the straightfor-
ward and active effects of the telepaths and psychokinetics,
the extra intelligence they provide can be an invaluable
aid in any undertaking.

<BOX>

Sensitive: Optional Rule
If you want increased realism at the cost of a
little more complexity, don't use the target value
and range value, use the measures instead. Then
convert the difference between the measures
back into a value and continue. The formula then
looks like this:
Success = Value [(Target measure) - (Range
measure)] + (SFX effect value) + (ESP skill roll
modifier)
This makes short ranges of no consequence
when detecting large items like nuclear plants,
because the range measure will be swallowed by
the huge target measure. Conversely, it makes
detecting small items at long range very hard
indeed, because the range measure becomes by
far the greater. We recommend this for maxi-
mum realism.

</BOX>

Using the Skill

Sensitives were the most difficult of the ESP skills to
design and balance for play. This is due to the interaction
between the MasterBook system and the way sensitives
were described in the novels. MasterBook is a very active system, which is as it
should be in a roleplaying game where most of the activity is action-oriented.
Further, as MasterBook values increase, the measures get exponentially higher.
On the other hand, sensitives are not at all active ESPers; they are passive
receptors. Also, and even worse, the higher a sensitive's SFX effect value, the
smaller items he should be able to detect — inverse to the more-is-bigger
approach of MasterBook.
We decided we needed to meet the following criteria:
a. large or powerful objects should be easier to detect
b. large or powerful objects should be visible at longer ranges
c. increasing effect value always helps, and
d. no ceilings or floors should be artificially imposed.
We were able to do this by using the MasterBook system backwards, after a
fashion. In essence, the sensitive is not the actor, the item which the sensitive can
detect is the actor and the sensitive is a passive antenna which detects the
activity. The greater the source, the easier it is to detect. The longer the range,
the harder it is to detect. The greater the SFX value, the easier the detection,
These all happen to work out into a neat little formula which sensitives use:
Success = (Target value) - (Range value) + (SFX effect value) + (ESP skill
roll modifier)
In other words, when a sensitive is trying to detect something, start by taking
the target's value. For nuclear sensitives, this could be the mass of uranium
present, possibly modified by purity or the radioactivity of the particular isotope.
For an ESPer sensitive to electrical power, it could be the value of the watts
produced by power plant's generators. Subtract the range value as measured
from the target to the sensitive from this value (the result can be negative). This
reflects the increasing difficulty in detecting items a long way away. Add the
ESPer's effect value — the higher the value, the easier time the sensitive has
detecting the target. Then, add the ESP skill roll modifier, which is either the
amount by which the ESPer's skill roll exceeded the SFX DN, or else the amount
by which the sensitive failed the ESP: sensitive skill roll (yes, it is possible for a
sensitive to detect something even with a failed skill roll; some things are too big
to miss).

The result of the calculation should be checked on the General Success Chart.
A negative number is a complete failure—nothing is detected at all — and higher
positive numbers result in more information with higher veracity and detail. For
example, a sensitive who can detect radioactive material scores a Minimal
success. He can tell that there is a small amount of radioactive material at an
unknown distance more or less east of his position. On a Spectacular+ success,
he can tell that there's twenty kilos of weapons-grade materials three and a half
kilometers east-southeast of him and thirty meters higher in elevation than
where he now stands.

Even with the same success level, the accuracy of the information depends on
the range from the source to the sensitive. This is due to the simple fact that more
detail can be gleaned at close range. A sensitive within a kilometer of a
submerged nuclear submarine can tell a lot about the radioactive materials on
that sub, including being able to differentiate between the radioactive signa-
tures of the reactor and the missiles, and perhaps even between the missiles
themselves. Were that same sensitive to detect the submarine at a range often
or a hundred kilometers, the extrasensory images of the nuclear materials would
blur and merge into one fuzzy impression. Think of looking at trees on a distant
mountain; you can tell they're there, but you can't distinguish one from the other.
When designing sensitives, the player must choose both what sort of material
or energy the sensitive is keyed to, and also whether the sensitive can detect
these items with eyes open, or with eyes closed only. For that matter, it is possible
that the sensitive uses one of the other senses to detect whatever it is; a sensitive
might experience a ringing in the ears, a peculiar taste, or a sense of vertigo. It's
all up to the player.
Finally, even those sensitives who have to concentrate to use their talent
occasionally have the images of their keyed source impinge on their conscious
unexpectedly. No matter what kind of trance a nuclear sensitive has to go into
to work his talent, he'll almost certainly notice when he drives past a large
thermonuclear plant or passes right next to a terrorist's nuclear bomb. Gener-
ally, this is left up to the gamemaster to determine (as is the case with every
ESPer deus ex machina), but a good rule of thumb is that if the source value
minus the range value is ten or more, the sensitive might pick up the source
involuntarily (have the ESPer roll a skill check, but don't add in the SFX effect
value).

=============================================================================

Shaman

"He saw Batu's face silhouetted against the night, and one eye which was a
yellow slit while the other was round and green and throbbing as if filled with
sentient pus! Something passed from that face to Gormley as fast as the thrust of
a mental knife; its razor edge located his spirit, his very soul, and opened them
up!"

Based on: Confidence
Effect Value: Damage (various types)
Resisted by: Toughness or other attribute (ignores armor)

Traditionally, the evil eye has been a power reputed to be able to inflict curses
or bad luck on people with but a glance. If you consider immediate horror and
pain unknowable to most mortals to be "bad luck" (as most people do), then this
description is basically right. Except that commonly the evil eye is no ordinary
glance but a horrid and appalling spectacle.
Someone who possesses the power of the evil eye is known as a shaman. This
label is perhaps a deliberate misapplication by Gregor Borowitz, former head of
the Soviet Agency for the Development of Paranormal Espionage, as the first
ESPer of this sort which Borowitz found was a Central Asian herdsman but not
at all a spiritualist. Whatever the original source, the label has stuck and is now
in common usage across the globe.
A shaman is one of the few ESPers whose unusual talent causes a direct
physical effect, yet it does this through a spiritual medium (no pun intended).
The evil eye is the channel through which a shaman inflicts a direct spiritual
attack upon another person. This sort of direct spiritual interaction still baffles
paranormal researchers around the globe, because it's the only instance known

wherein direct spiritual contact has extended past pure communication. Telepa-
thy is communication, even Wamphyri mind control is communication, albeit of

a more assertive nature. Some argue that a shaman is even more forceful about
their communication than the Wamphyri are, being able to order the target's

brain stem to stop pumping the heart. Others maintain that it is a direct spirit-
to-spirit assault, the psychic equivalent of a brutal roundhouse punch to the face.

Shamans themselves (the few that there are) are divided on the issue, but the
exhausting effect that the evil eye has on shamans gives credence to the concept
that the evil eye is more than just psychic shouting.
Furthermore, the evil eye does not necessarily have to be a glance. Although
most shamans have a killing look, there have been some shamans who used hand
gestures (like the infamous "quivering palm") and there is one well-documented
but rather ineffective shaman who made an ungodly sound which rose from a
hiss to a growl and suddenly burst into a shrieking bark. All of these had a similar
effect on the target; they were all simply different media for the spiritual assault
to use.
Using the evil eye (or the horrid hand or the bilious bark or whatever) is a
draining experience for the shaman; rare indeed is the shaman who can cast it
more than twice in the span of a few minutes. It is a great drain, and although
it causes the victim's heart to lurch and inflicts great pain, it generally is not
powerful enough a talent to actually kill those who are not already weakened by
weak hearts, advanced age, or other medical conditions. (Domestic and prey
animals, having less willpower than most humans, are also liable to be killed


outright by the casting of an evil eye.) To try to push the evil eye harder to kill
a normal, healthy person outright involves more effort than a shaman can
typically produce without killing himself in the process. |
There is also a greater hazard affiliated with the evil eye, and that is that is
must be thrown against a living target. It cannot be thrown against a non-living
target, because the spirit of the shaman must attack another living spirit — and
bad things can happen if the shaman screws up in this matter. This can happen
if the shaman accidentally targets a mirror, a mannequin, or (as is possible) a
dead person come back to mobility. It's obvious why mirrors and mannequins are
non-living targets, but the walking dead pose an interesting problem being
debated by experts. Since the spirits of the dead remain with their corpses, why
can't a shaman target these spirits? The best guess that experts can make is that
the spirits of the dead are no longer connected with their corpses as intimately
as the spirits of the living are, and that when a shaman attacks a living person's
spirit, they have to be able to reach to the target's body. Such an avenue is no
longer available with the walking dead, who only manipulate their bodies in the
grossest sense of the term, more like meaty marionettes than real breathing
bodies.
Whatever the actual case, when a shaman casts the evil eye on a target which
is not really there, the psychic strike turns back on itself, rebounding from the
nonentity target and returning to the source: the shaman himself. The shaman's
spirit strikes him with full force, with all the malevolence expended in the strike,
and, because the shaman is concentrating entirely on attack and not on defense,
he suffers the attack without the natural resilience of anyone else's spirit.
However, just as a man cannot lift himself by the hair, a spirit cannot crush itself
(although there is one inconclusive instance where it might have happened).
Instead, the energy of the attack has to expend itself somewhere else, which
usually means it takes full effect in whatever part of the body is the medium for
the assault. Thus a shaman with a quivering palm might shatter every bone in
his hand, whereas a shaman who uses an evil eye might have his very eyes
exploded as from within by the force of his own will. Reflected attacks are always
debilitating, and usually permanently crippling to the shaman careless enough
to suffer them.
Due to the grotesqueness and malevolence of their unusual talent, shamans
are often unpopular people. This is in part due to the obscenity of their talent,
and due partly to the psychological effect the knowledge of their powers has on
them. After all, if you know you can deck someone with a glance, are you
particularly inclined to treat them with respect? You know what they say about
power and corruption ...

Using the Skill

First of all, a shaman must define several aspects of the evil eye SFX. For one
thing, the shaman is the only type of ESPer in the basic game which can have an
unreal effect for their paranormal talent — that is to say, a shaman can either
assault someone, or give them the overwhelming waking nightmare that they
are being assaulted. Either can be severely damaging, or even fatal to those of
diminished constitution.
Second, the player must determine how the shaman's talent is communicated
to the victim. Is it through a glance, a gesture, a touch, or something else? This
has an impact on how the psychic attack can be used; a shaman with the evil eye
is helpless if he's unable to see his intended victim (the room is dark or he's
blindfolded), but a shaman with a quivering palm is hampered by handcuffs.
Third, the shaman must decide whether or not the victim's awareness is
necessary. In a negative sense, it could easily be that if the intended victim is not
looking at the shaman (perhaps even deliberately avoiding making eye contact),
then the shaman's paranormal talent has no effect. On the other extreme, a
shaman can so completely command a victim's attention that the victim can
undertake no other action than to submit to the psychic assault. 
The effects of these sort of SFX parameters fall outside the scope of the standard SFX rules, and are best
handled using Advantages and Compensations.

Fourth, associated skill uses are easily applied to the shaman's talent. 
The psychic bolt, though intangible, can be affected by manual skills. 
Thrown weapons is one possibility, as is fire combat (especially if the shaman has to point his finger like a gun). 
Others are possible given a touch of creativity and a good explanation.

Fifth, the shaman can have an area of effect. 
In this sense,the shaman's spiritual attack is more like a psychic grenade or bomb. 
Max Batu apparently has a bit of an area of effect,as Boris Dragosani made a habit of turning his face away
before Max threw his psychic bolt at someone. 
The exact details of how the area of effect works must be decidedbetween the player and the gamemaster, 
as it is one areawhere great abuse of the rules is possible.

When a shaman casts the evil eye on someone, make an ESP: shaman skill roll. 
If the shaman beat the DN, comparethe shaman's SFX effect value to the target's Toughness (or
whichever attribute the shaman SFX damages). 
This is ofcourse the standard approach for SFX damage.
However, the exercise of this talent is physically drainingas well as psychological wearying; the shaman also suffers from the assault. 
Take the SFX effect value and subtract theshaman's Confidence attribute from it. 
Halve the differenceand apply it as shock damage to the shaman. If the shaman's ESP: shaman skill roll exceeds 
double the shaman's effect value, subtract one shock point for each point of difference.

All the shock is applied after the shaman casts the evil eye, so it is possible for a shaman to curse someone 
and then passout from the effort. 
A shaman can also cast several evil eyes, so long as he is able to maintain consciousness. However, 
the gamemaster should not allow a shaman to cast an evil eyeover and over again at the same target. 
Instead, the pushrules should be used.

Example: A shaman (see the shaman SFX on page
65) casts his evil eye on someone. He barely beats his
SFX DN, and damages the target. The shaman takes 6

shock points (24 for the effect value minus 12 for Confi-
dence, divided by two). If the shaman rolled 50 result
points on his ESP: shaman roll (!), he'd only take 4 shock
points (the result points beat double the SFX DN by two,
so two shock points are removed from what the shaman
suffers). As previously mentioned, shamans can push their evil eye SFX,
but it is a dangerous undertaking. When a shaman pushes, 
add the shock taken from the push to the amount the shaman already tookfor the initial use of the talent. 
If the accumulated shock points exceeds the amount of shock the shaman can withstand (not excluding any 
shock the shaman has already taken due to damage or exhaustion), the excess shock points are converted to 
wounds ona one-for-one basis. 
It doesn't take a lot of pushing for a shaman to begin to risk rupture of the aorta, 
especially if the shaman is already tired...

Physical wounds caused by a shaman's attack are not tangible, but they can
be detected by a thorough physical. That is, long, bloody gashes and the like don't
suddenly appear on the victim, but bruising of the heart can occur, as can
numerous small ruptures, pneumothorax, embolisms, and a variety of other
damaging ailments. Even purely illusory damage will manifest itself as minor
palpitations and other psychosomatic signs.
Psychological damage is due to similar effects on the victim's very soul. Again,
it manifests itself in various signs of stress, such as increased blood pressure,
altered brain patterns, and higher pulse rate.
When attacked, victims of a shaman are very aware of where the damage came
from, even if they don't understand the mechanism by which it came about. The only
possible exception is if the target were attacked in a crowd while unaware. In other
words, treat a shamanic assault just as you would a physical assault for reaction,
enmity, and future precautions taken by the target to prevent reoccurrences.

=============================================================================

Spotter

"It got so he could recognize them almost as easily as he recognized his own men.
He had never come face to face, but he'd know they were there. Strange auras.
Never where he could tie a face to a feeling."

Based on: Mind
Effect Value: Special (see text)
Resisted by: (Not applicable)

Spotters are very similar to sensitives, but whereas sensitives are tuned to
natural energies or matter, spotters are able to locate and identify ESP-endowed
people. For a while, spotters were classified as ESP-sensitives, but there is
enough of a difference that they have been broken out into a separate subclass
by most paranormal experts.
For one thing, spotters seem to have a more definitive range. Although there
is still variance depending on the strength of the ESPer being detected, there is
a definite range beyond which spotters cannot detect a psychic. While the best

sensitives carry a map of the entire planet (keyed to their substance of sensitiv-
ity) in their heads, the longest known identification of an ESPer by a spotter was

at a range of approximately one kilometer. They are also an entirely visually-
based form of ESPer, lacking in the flexibility of detection sensations which

sensitives have.
Furthermore, sensitives detect whatever it is that they are keyed to. If it's
radioactive, for example, it's detected. The sensitive can only tell what sort of

radioactive material it is by judgment calls based on the density of its radioac-
tivity and the like. For spotters, however, different ESP auras are distinctly

different in appearance. ESP auras may be strong or weak, intense or pale,
shaped in different ways, and they come in as many colors as the rainbow — even
more. Necroscopes are bright blue in color; necromancers, deep blue mixing with
blood red. Other spotters are bright white in appearance. Curiously, the colors
of an ESPer's aura do not manifest themselves in a spotter's mind until the
ESPer is within the spotter's range; one spotter described all humans as having
a shimmering gray aura which developed into whatever color and shape Was
appropriate as the spotter came closer.
It is this description that makes most spotters believe that their talent is not
simple passive reception as is the case with sensitives, but instead more of a
psychic sonar; the spotter emits — unconsciously — a psychic pulse which gets
reflected by every living creature. Psychically endowed humans reflect the pulse
much more strongly, as if the pulse itself gains energy and vitality by rebounding
off a psychic power. Other ESPers are thus 'bright' targets and reflect this pulse
as though they were elastic, while most people are 'dull' and absorb much of the
energy of the pulse. This theory is supported by the fact that many spotters have
their talent hampered by solid objects which intervene between them and other

ESPers. One spotter told two other ESPers, "I had to actually enter the house to
know you were here."
To spotters, a person's psychic aura is as unique as their face. With careful
study, identification by aura is as exacting as by fingerprint. Even more so, for
while an intelligence agent might be able to disguise his face and perhaps even
surgically alter his fingerprints, it is impossible to mask the soul ... at least at
this time.
This detection of the soul itself brings us to another advantage spotters have:
they can tell whether someone is channeling a dead spirit. The aura of the
channeled spirit will override the aura of the necroscope who is allowing the
channeling, although the aura of the necroscope will still be visible as a sort of
halo around the aura of the channeled spirit. In this way a spotter can tell
whether someone is channeling, and what type of person is being channeled.
Spotters enjoy similar effects when watching those who are vectoring spirits,
undergoing hypnotic regression, having out-of-body experiences, and peforming
other paranormal activities.
Spotters are very much in demand in ESPionage circles, largely because they
are wonderful talent scouts (pardon the pun). Most E-branches have spotters

scouring their big cities looking for the distinctive auras of the psionically-
endowed. It is no coincidence that Gregor Borowitz, the head of the USSR's

Agency for the Development of Paranormal Espionage, and Sir Keenan Gormley,
the head of Britain's E-branch, were themselves powerful spotters.

Using the Skill

Spotters, unlike most of the ESPers described in this book, have their power
active all the time. While shamans and seers must concentrate to use their
paranormal talent, spotters simply have their talent working for them around
the clock. Thus, whenever you encounter an ESP-endowed person, you can make
an ESP: spotter skill check to see if you can detect what type of ESPer it is. Of
course, your gamemaster will probably have you make skill checks every time
you encounter a new and important gamemaster character whether it's an
ESPer or not, just so you're not sure which of them might be psionically-talented
if you fail the roll.
When making an ESP: spotter skill check, spotters receive a bonus to their die
roll. This bonus is equal to the target ESPer's SFX Difficulty Number minus the
range value from the spotter to the target; this makes powerful psychics easier
to spot. This bonus may of course be negative if the target ESPer is weak or the
range is very long.
If the spotter succeeds in the skill check, subtract the range value from the
spotter's effect value and check the result on the General Success Chart. A
Minimal success means that the spotter knows the target is an ESPer. A
Spectacular+ success tells the spotter the target ESPer's talent, SFX effect value,
ESP skill value, and allows the spotter to recognize that exact same ESPer for
who he is at any time in the future (even with a future Minimal success — the
spotter has memorized the target's psychic fingerprint).
Spotters can also tell the taint of vampirism. Vampires are powerful psychics
in their own right, and their minds have a peculiar indescribable taint, a sort of
psychic fog which conceals the vampire's mind from being exposed by human
ESPers. Everything a vampire touches with its mind acquires this taint to a
lesser extent, and spotters can notice this contamination easily. In game terms,
use the intruder vampire's willpower skill value instead of the normal ESPer's
effect value for the skill check bonus, thus the bonus is the vampire's willpower
value minus the range value. This taint is visible even if the target has no psionic
talent of its own.
Finally, spotters can get used to psychic signals in their vicinity, much like
people can get used to certain smells or background sounds. Don't penalize your
poor spotter for walking around with other ESPers; the spotter would just tune
them out after a short while.

=============================================================================

Telepath

"Now he'll concentrate on that single sub, see if he can sneak into its navigator's
mind and get the new course." — Gregor Borowitz

Based on: Intellect
Effect Value: Interactive
Resisted by: Intellect

Mention extrasensory perception to most people, and they will immediately
think of mind-reading. This association is perhaps in part due to the fact that
telepaths are one of the most common forms of ESPer in the world; people
throughout history have had experiences with telepaths, so the association of
telepathy and ESP is commonly-held.

A telepath is a person who can read the thoughts of another person, true, but
it goes much further than that. A good telepath can actually probe the living
matter of another person's brain, rooting through the person's past history by
means of unraveling half-forgotten memories and images long lost to the person
himself. A good telepath can do more than raid the active thoughts of a target,
he can take poke around the hidden recesses like a person in a musty library or
a doctor with a CAT scanner for the soul.

Telepaths are very good interrogators, and are thus very much in demand by
the ESPionage networks around the globe. They are so dangerous because they 
know what weakens your willpower.  They are so effective because they can sense 
the effects their questions have; if a telepath's interrogation makes you 
uncomfortable, they know, they can see it happening. And you can bet that they 
will continue to probe the sore spot until the information they seek is laid 
bare under the bright gaze of their unusual talent.

Unlike the portrayal of many mind-readers and empaths in
modern fiction, telepaths do not just pick up thoughts and
feelings from other people all the time; they must concentrate
actively. In this sense, they are not passive antennas waiting
for broadcasts, but rather mindthieves who steal thoughts
and memories from their target. Also, telepaths can only
receive; they are not capable of telepathic projection, they
cannot make others hear voices in their heads (that's a
different talent which will be covered in a future supplement).

Thus a telepath cannot relay orders to an agent in the field,
although two telepaths can have a long-distance conversation
by reading each others' minds.

It is unclear exactly how telepathy works, but it appears to
involve the extrusion of a psychic pseudopod, if you will. This
paranormal hand can reach out to the mind of the target and
'feel around' for the information the telepath wants. This
theory is backed up by the fact that when Wamphyri telepathically probe
someone, they can leave their inimical psychic footprint on the person's brain;
this fact alone demonstrates that the telepath in some very real sense is inside
the target's head. One telepath, at a loss for words to illustrate what his talent
felt like, described it so: "Probing for someone's thoughts is something like
searching a dresser in a room that's completely dark. First you run your hands
carefully over the top of the dresser; whatever thoughts are active in the person's
mind are on top there, being used and in easy reach. You can grab those easily.
Recent memories — well, all memories — are packed in the drawers of the
dresser. In a drawer, the recent memories are on top, and distant memories,
childhood stuff and unimportant events, are buried deep in the drawers. There
are even some repressed or very old memories which are almost impossible to
touch. They're like something which has dropped down behind a drawer, where
they can't be reached without an intense search and a lot of work."

Also, to a telepath, reading a person's mind is not like reading a book, it's much
more intense and personal. When reading a book, you learn about it. When
reading a mind, a telepath lives it. The emotion is real, raw and powerful as the
story itself, not diluted by prose and suspension of disbelief. The telepath knows
not only what the thoughts of the target are, but the emotions that drive those
thoughts. In this way, a telepath can generally avoid misinterpretation of
thoughts, picking up sarcasm, joking, or attempts at deceit which can color the
true meaning behind the contemplations.

Remote Targeting

In the Necroscope novels, all a telepath
had to know was where the target was in a
global sense, not in a sense which related to
the telepath personally. It was enough for
the telepath to know the target was in a
submarine at a specific location in the ocean,
it was unnecessary for the telepath to know
where the submarine was in relation to
him. Similarly, one could assume that a
telepath could see someone on TV in a
known location and that would be good
enough. If you want to allow this sort of
flexibility, go right ahead. If the target is
located within the telepath's range, and the
telepath knows the location, that's good
enough and the telepath can establish con-
tact. Alternatively, this sort of spatial ori-
entation could be allowed as an Advantage.

There is some danger to being a telepath. One is that if someone knows you
are a telepath, they will tend to trust you less. The very fact that you can read
their minds makes them feel that you are spying on them constantly. Of course,
once their opinion is colored and they begin to try to conceal things from you, as
a telepath you'll be tempted to probe their mind and find out what you want.
Additionally, those speaking with a telepath often wonder if what the telepath
says comes from the heart, or is a response formulated specifically to give the
listener the impression that it comes from the heart; in other words, is the
telepath's interaction genuine or a tailor-made lie? In short, telepaths have a
difficult time building trusting relationships with someone. For this reason, it is
a generally-accepted custom that telepaths never read the minds of co-agents.
Even with this rule in place, telepaths are still often pariahs in their own
organizations.

Another problem with telepaths is that they pick up all the thoughts of their
target, and thus often become jaded or cynical. Everyone has random psycho-
pathic thoughts all the time. If a person is rude to you in traffic, you think of firing
a bazooka at their car and watching them explode in slow-motion. These
thoughts are never voiced, neither are they acted upon (by sane people at least),
but to telepaths they are every bit as real as every other thought. Some telepaths
get very depressed, and view the world as a total war zone waiting to happen.
A third danger of being a telepath is that it is possible to become addicted to
outside stimuli. Just as some people drive great satisfaction from living vicari-
ously through soap operas or reading trashy novels, some telepaths spend a lot
of time in other people's minds living their lives and watching their most
intimate moments; the telepathy develops into a sick sort of voyeurism.
These weaknesses aside, telepaths are the most highly sought-after ESPers
in the world today, and are among the most powerful tools in the ESPionage
arsenal.

Using the Skill

In order to read someone's mind, the telepath must first identify the target.
If the target is in sight, this is not a problem. Otherwise, the telepath must know
where the target is located. If the telepath knows that the target is asleep in bed
exactly two floors above in a hotel, this is good enough. However, if the telepath
only knows that the target is in the east wing of the embassy across the street,
she must begin taking shots in the dark, as it were, until she hits the target. In
cases like these, having an SFX with an area or volume of effect is quite helpful.
Once a telepath has a target identified (or is casting blindly about for same),
the telepath must make a skill roll. If the telepath's ESP: telepath skill check
exceeds the difficulty of the SFX DN, the telepath breaks into the target's mind.
Subtract the target's Intellect from the telepath's effect value. The result is a
modifier for all subsequent telepathic interrogation attempts. (If the telepath's
result points are more than double the SFX DN, any additional points are added
to this telepathic interrogation modifier.)

Once a telepath has established contact with a target, she has an amount of.
time equal to her SFX duration to complete her examination of the subject. In
essence, the telepath can research the answers to a number of different 
questions, rolling another skill check (plus the modifier described above) for each
question. The Paranormal Interrogation Table lists I)N modifiers and time
requirements for various types of information the telepath might require. If the
telepath succeeds or fails in the skill roll, decrease or increase the time value to
acquire the information by one per point of success or failure, respectively.

Failing a skill roll on a follow-up question does not deny the telepath the desired
information, as the telepath has already succeeded in establishing contact with
the target's mind. It just makes finding the information harder.

If the telepath does not have enough time left in the SFX duration to complete
a question, the telepath gets either incomplete information or no information at
all, at the discretion of the gamemaster. However, if a telepath thinks her time
is running out, she can try to push her skill to get results quicker. Use the normal
push rules.

Telepaths can receive additional information during their interrogation as
well. The surface thoughts of a person are very easily read, and are sometimes
picked up by a telepath even when the telepath is searching for something
different. Remember, thoughts are fluid and holographic in nature, and people
think in stream-of-consciousness. so the information received may be partly
illusory or achingly incomplete when the telepath picks it up. (Hint: this is a plot
vehicle for the gamemaster to toss in any additional clues or warnings that are
deemed necessary.)

=============================================================================

Numerancer

Strange equations suddenly flashed on the screen of his mind. Doors opened
wheren o doors should be.H is metaphysicalm ind reachedo ut and grasped the
physicawl orld, eagert o bend it to his will. He could hear the felledp lain-clothes
man screamirugh is rage and pain, could seet he taller one reaching into his
ouercoaatn d drawing out an ugly, short-barceledw eapon.B ut printed ouert his
pictureo f the real world, the doorsi n theM itbius space-timed imensionw eret here
withirt reach, their dark thresholds seeming to beckon.
- Necroscope

Based On: Intellect
Effect Value: Ability to manipulate the Mribius Continuum
Resisted By: Not applicable

Numerancy, the innate ability to work with numbers - especially with those
equationsth at allow peoplel ike Harry Keoght o uset he Mtibius loopt o teleport.
Peoplew ith this ability seemt o have an intuitive senseo f higher mathematics.
Thus far, only Harry Keogh has managed to master the ability to teleport, but
then, you never know when another might show up - on either side of the
intelligence fence, I'm afraid.
Ever since Keogh revealed his talent in the spectacular way he did (but that's
another story altogether), we've had some of our best mathematicians working
to determine how he managed it. So far, they've told us they're getting closer, but
there seems to be more to it than they first thought. Some have speculated that
it takes a leap of faith, a suspension of disbelief, or a frrm belief that it can work,
on top ofeverything else. Since nobody has been able to get far enough to even
think about belief or disbelief, it's entirely moot at this stage in the game.
So far, the closest we have to full-fledged teleporting numerancers are our
intuitive calculators. Some of these agents are working on the Mdbius project,
though they haven't had any success yet. Perhaps it takes several lengthy
discussions with Mdbius himself to make that leap of intuition.

Uslng the Sklll

Numerancy is an integral part of Necroscopen ovels,b ut in game terms, it is
extremely powerful and extremely difficult to adjudicate. It's up to the gamemaster
whether or not to allow a full-fledged numerancer as a player character. If not,
it's easy enough to limit the abilities of the numerancer to that of an intuitive
calculator, which in itself is a useful skill. If a player is dead-set on becoming a
Mribius numerancer, then he has to become familiar with many mathematical
theories, talk to a lot of different people (including dead ones), and, usually, go
on a quest (or two, or more). To even take the numeran cy skill the character must
have at least one skill add in scholar: mathematics.
Numerancy is not a focus of the ESP skill. Instead, it is a full-fledged skill in
itself. Characters with the skill of numerancy have the ability to work with
equations and mathematical theories intuitively. In fact, if given a complicated
problem, rather than working out every step, they can instinctively leap to the conclusion 

The gamemaster determines a difficulty number
of a particular equation based on the length of time
it takes to solve (select a time value from the Value
Chart). The character then generates a nunl.erancy
skill total. Find the result points on the Push column
ofthe Success Chart, and then subtract the
resulting push value from the equation's time value
to determine the actual length of time it takes for
the character to solve the formula.
The Mdbius specialization of numerancy entails
an in-depth knowledge of Miibius theory. There are
several mandatory prerequisites for the Mdbius
specializationT.h esei nclude: a scholar: mathematicss
kill of 25, a sciencea: stronomys kill of 15, and a
nwnero,ncsyk ill of a least 15.T he mastermust
determine which mathemati and
astronomers- alive or
visit before gaining a
numerancyi Miibius or
There is no need
effect before the ch
Sincet his effect is
using the Mtibi
worry about the
tion. All that
value.a reao f
port items along
target (optional:
when your fellow ng another agent
instead)I.t is poss and delay time by
adding optional mod
skill is the ability to
hl aspect ofthis
te situation. If you
addelementtsh at will s re cuttingdown on the
usefulnesso f the skill.
Continuum and grows more familiar ffih the process as he manipulates and
Oncein the Contingum,t ffiIffiffigo'ffirywhere on Earth that he is
familiarw ith or canb ef i-uidedS t asf fiffiffi arr/s fi $$tv isit whenh ew asl eda way
by a dead person ). Continuum ltse wtSl$fh the Vanffiire World is much the same,
but the character has to go the*re ph$iffily befor$$eing able to travel these via
Continuum.T he effectv alue is usedt o Ebterminet dhethert he characteri s able
t9 op-ena door into the Contin$um. A -s4&nds peciq$effectr oll is required to exit
the Continuum and re-enter fuality

The base difficulty numbeffir opehffi a door into or out of the Continuum is
30. However, since the charaffir starts ffit being unaccustomed with the Miibius
travels through it, the difficulpy decre$es by one for each successive attempt,
until the diffrculty number fal$ to 20. Sris gradual decreaseh elps emulate the
idea that the character is learSing his ffiay around the Continuum.
Of course, a character's fam$$iarity lsth his current location and his destination
does affect the "exiting" ffifficulty number. After all, when working with
mathematicalf ormulas, whereagroua re is as important as where you're going -
especiallywhenyou'rter yingto movef rom onel ocationt o anotherviathe Miibius
Continuum. Once the effect is initiated, refer to the Mribius Continuum Modifier
Chart.
If the character misses his roll to ehter the Continuum. he is stuck in his
current location. If the character misse$ the roll while inside the Continuum, he
isl osti n the Mtibius Continuum for 1d.fr0h ours. For eachh our the character is

marooned in the Continuum, he loses one
point of Endurance or one point of Mind ifhe
misses a roll against a diffrculty number
equal to his starting Endurance or Mind,
respectively (alternating each hour - Endurance,
Mind, Endurance, etc.). This simulates
the character's ability to hold himself
together both in mind and body while lost in
the Continuum. Once the "lost" hours have
elapsed, the character may attempt another
exit. Unfortunately, the exiting diffrculty is
increased by the number of points of Endurance
or Mind lost while marooned in the
Continuum (if applicable).
Entering the Continuum is difficult, and
sometimes deadly. After all, Harry Keogh
wasn't able to open his first Miibius door
until he found himself in a life-threatening
situation, and once inside, it took a dead
person to guide him back out. Not all characat
necroscopya s Harry Keogh.

Example: Agent Thomp son finds himself in a tight situation. He's bound
and gagged in a small room with no apparent exit. He decides to use his
numerancy: M0bius talent to get himself out of the situation. To initiate the
effeci and open the first door, he has to roll his numerancy: Mdbius sh,ill
against the speciale ffect'sd ifficulty numbero f 16.H e generatesa total of 28,
yielding 12 result points. Since he has only usedthe Mdbius Continuumfour
times before,h is based fficulty number to get into and out of the Mdbius
Continuum is 26 (30 - 4). Trying to enter the Continuum from a darkened
crreq incurs a +5 penalty, raising the entrance dfficulty to 31 (although it
does not affect the exit difficulty). His effect ualue is 20. Adding in the result
points giues him a total of 32 (20 + 12), ullowing him to open a door to the
Continuum.
He decidesh es hould teleportt o the hotelr oom whereh is fellow agentsa re
currently waiting. Since he only saw the hotel room a few times, his total
dfficulty number for exiting the Continuum is 30 (26 + 4). He rolls against
his special effect difficulty of 16, and gets a 17, yielding one
result point. His effectiue effect ualue is 21 (20 + 1), not
enough to beat the exit difficulty of 30. The player controlling
Thompson must now roll a ten-sided die to determine
how many hours Thompson will be stuck in the Continuum.
He gets a three, so now he has to make a check
uersus his Endurance, Mind, then Endurunce agairu. Because
his Endurance is 9 and Mind is 10, his initial chech,s
are made against a dfficulty number of 9 and 70, respectiuely.
H e rolls an 8 for Erudurancea nd a 13 for his Mind,
thus missing his Endurqnce (9 - 1 = 8), but making his
Mind check. Now he has an Endurctnce of 8 for the second
check. Since his Endurance dfficulty number remains at
9, he has to roll an 17 or better to make the second
Endurance chech. He makes it with a roll of 13 (bonus
pointsof2,S+2=10).
At this point hec an q,ttemptt o leauet he Continuum. His
new exit dfficulty num.ber is 31 (the original exiting
difficulty number of 30 plus the point he lost in Endur-
aruceH). e generates1 1 result points initiating the effect,w hich giuesh im a
total effect ualue of31 (20 + 11),just enough for him to escape

=============================================================================

Witch

Based On: Confidence
Effect Value: Special
Resisted By: Special

Over the centuries the general populace has devised many definitions for
people known as "witches." Here at the agency, we have our own version. EBranch
witches have the ability to perform "sympathetic magic" upon themselves
or others. The skill applies to any living creature, so witches can also affect
any being from the animal or insect kingdoms.
Oh, and witches can be male or female. The agency refers to either gender in
the same way. Although some call male witches "warlocks," we feel the distinction
would lead to more confusion than clarification. For those neo-pagans out
there in the room, please do not feel offended at anything I might say about how
our particular witches use their abilities.
Whenever we have a strange ESP skill that seems to work by the principles
of sympathetic magic and which doesn't fit into any of the other existing
categories, we call that person a witch. For a while, elementals fell into that
category (weather witches, you know), but finally we had enough of them to
create a separate classification. I'm sure we will encounter similar situations as
we locate and study more ESPers.
By the way, for those of you who don't know about sympathetic magic, it's a
system of dweomercraft that uses symbolism and wish fulfillment to generate a
desired effect. Examples of rituals include sticking a pin into a doll to cause one's
enemy pain, eating the flesh of a cheetah to acquire its speed, and using a
person's "true" name to take control of him.
How this ability works, we can't even begin to explain. The key to the talent
seems to revolve around strong faith. Of course, this theory can be applied to any
of the ESP talents.

Uslng the Sklll

A witch's talent should not fit into any other skill category (like elemental,
sensitive, void, etc.) and it should use some sort of sympathetic magic. Thewitch
skill encompassesa wide variety of abilities, so the player must comeu p with a
specific description ofhow the effect functions. For example, one witch might use
dolls to hurt or hinder foes. Another witch might augment various attributes and
skills by drinking an herbal infusion brewed over a frre containing herbal
components. Whatever the case, the idea should be imaginative and fully
detailed.
Once the idea has been fleshed out, the gamemaster should look it over and
determine whether it should fall under another skill. For example, if a player
came up with a special effect that allowed the witch to heal herself or others, then
that effect would come under the healer skill, not t}re witch skill.
When creating the effect, there are certain elements available only to witches.
Since the emphasis of a witch's special effect is sympathetic magic, gestures,
componentsa, nd incantationst ake on a whole new importancei n theNecroscope
world. For this reason,a ll of these elements are allowed- and encouraged- for
witch ESPers. After all, sympathetic magic gets its name partly from its strange
components, complicated gestures, and muttered incantations. Witches should
have a sense of ritual about them.
Another important aspect of witches is their strong faith. Once the effect has
been developed,t he player must create a character background that warrants
such an ability. After all, we're basing the witch skill on the strength of the
ESPer's beliefs. For example, a little girl throws her "Daddy" doll against the
wall, and moments later watches her father die of a heart attack. Forever after,
the girl believes she killed her father, and begins to perform rituals on dolls
representing other people to force them to take certain courses of action

A witch may affect himself or others, but not both. Witches who affect
themselves usually augment their skills or attributes. They must therefore
select the focus element for their effect. When they wish to alter an attribute,
their effect value is compared to their skill or ability on the Push column of the
Success Chart. The result points are then added to the character's skill or
attribute for the duration of the effect. If the player wishes to have the option of
affecting more than one attribute, then the multi-attribute element must be
chosen.
Witches who can affect animals or other humans must have the focus and
apportation elements. Those who can affect another being's attributes - either
positively or negatively - use the rules given above for personal altering. In the
case of witches who can decrease an ability, the Push result is subtracted from
the character's attribute score. The more lethal witches often have the ability to
cause damage to a person's body. To inflict damage on a target creature (via dolls,
direct spells, etc.), the effect value is treated as a damage value, ignoring any
armour.
